# Project Euler - Problem 2

## [Web page](https://projecteuler.net/problem=2)

### Even Fibonacci numbers

#### Problem 2

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

---

My first thoughts here are to create two arrays. The first array will create the fib sequence normally, then the second array will contain the first ten even numbers that are generated.

#### How do I go about that?

- Create the first array for the fib sequence (fibNums) and populate it - how many times?
- Create the second array (fibEven) to contain just even numbers from fibNums.
- Add all the numbers in fibEven

#### How many times do I run the sequence for fibArr

I need fibEven to contain 10 numbers.

Run the fibNums sequence in a loop until there are 10 items in the fibEven array

    fibNums[]
    fibEven[]

    loop until there are 10 items in fibEven
        run fibArr sequence
        check if the result is an even number and if so add it to fibEven

So, to begin let's create 2 empty arrays (fibNums and fibEven)

create a function that runs the fib sequence, then checks the result. If the result is even, add it to fibEven

Now wrap the entire function in a loop that checks the number of items in fibEven. When the number of items reaches 10 break the loop.

Finally, add all the numbers up in fibEven. This should be the answer to the problem.

#### How it went

It went pretty well. It did take longer than it should, but it was a good learning process.

The code is well commented now.
